how do i stay motivated for a new job
after years of failure and not caring
it feels like my floundering in
desperation has led me to a point where
i cannot afford to fail again i'm dirt
poor i have some addictions i should
kick and my loved ones worry about me
the last three years of my life has
included
repeated collegiate flunkage various
firings from crappy jobs and a whole
plethora of bullshittery on my end
months of unemployment forced me to
begrudgingly apply myself i scored a job
with a company that will pay me more
than i've ever made in the past with an
opportunity for promotion and epic cash
flow
a part of me is excited and relieved for
this new opportunity opportunity however
another side of me is saying oh crap oh
god what if i screw up again
it feels like this job is a precious
baby otter and i'm just a goblin with a
with credit card debt but my biggest
fear is that my inner goblin will decide
to stop caring about this otter and i
will once again exterminate my chance
for success
so my question today is how do i channel
excitement for potential success into a
long-term hard-working attitude
i know that this problem
i have won't be cured by an easy
solution but honestly just writing it
out feels good
has anyone out there experienced this
feeling if so what did you do about it
any
and all advice and comments would be
greatly appreciated i know someone's
saying what colorful prose my thoughts
exactly
someone's a a gifted author okay
so this is a job post about someone who
you know has
not been doing great in life
flunked out of college maybe got
addicted people are worried about them
um you know
not doing great and then sort of applied
themselves and ended up getting a job
with the option of epic cash flow
right so now they're excited and they're
afraid that they're going to screw it up
and their question is how do i keep how
do i channel my excitement into like
long-term motivation and drive
and the short answer is you don't
so long-term motivation and drive does
not come from excitement so this is
something that's very important to
understand
long-term motivation and drive doesn't
come from excitement it comes from doing
away with all of the negative stuff
so i want you guys to think about it
this way so imagine that you're starting
a fire and so you have some lighter
fluid on there right which is like the
you know that's the excitement so
excitement is by definition gonna wane
over time because it's emotions we can't
stay perpetually excited this is the
major trap that a lot of people fall
into is when they get a spark of
excitement they work really hard they
feel excited and then like something
happens and their old patterns set in
and then their excitement wanes over
time and then they end up things end up
falling apart right so we see the cycle
over and over again a burst of
motivation and excitement followed by
some progress followed by back to square
one
so how does that happen people think
that what i need to do is continue the
excitement and it sort of makes sense
because excitement is what got you out
of the rut so you think okay like how do
i increase my excitement how do i
maintain it how do i advance
whereas what i'd say is that you know
excitement is like lighter fluid so
imagine you're starting you know you're
trying to start a fire and you place
some logs or you put some lighter fluid
and you kind of light it
but then the issues what the reason that
your fire goes out is not because of an
absence of lighter fluid it's because
there's like rain and there's like wind
and then you've got this tiny little
fire and you don't know how to keep it
going or you can keep it going for a few
seconds or a few minutes
but it's really the negative aspects of
your life weighing down on you that
ultimately destroy your long-term
motivation so if we look at this
person's post we can even see it in
their language right
so let's just kind of take a look
it feels like my floundering in
desperation i cannot afford to fail dirt
poor some addictions
various firings
plethora of bullshittery
begrudgingly apply myself yuck
right
and
i feel like i'm just gonna screw it up
again like failure is inevitable i'm
afraid i'm afraid i'm gonna screw it up
because i've screwed it up so many times
in the past
so if you want real motivation
what you really have to do is nurture
that that fire right like you have to
protect it from the negative stuff
so motivation each and every human being
is actually naturally motivated
if you look at it like you know i know
it sounds kind of weird but
it's not that we have to find motivation
it's that like what's learned is
actually a lack of motivation being
unmotivated is the modification the
default is actually to be motivated and
if you don't believe that all you have
to do is look at a child
every child is motivated to walk every
child is motivated to learn how to pick
up a ball every child is motivated to
like interact with other children
right as children we see the most
natural state of the human which is to
like strive to like grow and learn and
do things like you can't get kids to sit
still they get bored easily they want
excitement they want to explore they
want to go do things so the most natural
element of a human being is actually to
be motivated towards something so what
gets in the way it's all the negative
crap that kills the motivation
so long-term sustained motivation does
not come from increasing your excitement
because excitement can absolutely get us
out of the rut
long-term motivation actually comes with
processing the negative things that hold
us back
because what this person needs is not
fuel for the fire what they need is
freedom from like the negative emotions
they need freedom from the doubt and
freedom from the fear and freedom from
the idea that inevitably i will screw
this up as i have before because what's
gonna happen in this person's mind is
very similar to our last case which is
when some natural thing happens that
causes a negative impact in their
performance all of these negative
thoughts will be like oh see you're
screwing it up again you're screwing it
up again you're screwing it up again
there it goes you knew you couldn't do
it you got uppity and you tried and see
what happened you're doomed to failure
when the truth is that you know there's
going to be fluctuations in your job no
matter what so let's say they've got an
opportunity for promotion and someone
there happens to be like better at the
job than they are
and then that person gets promoted and
so like even though next round that this
person you may still get promoted like
you just lost this one you can apply
next year or next six months or whatever
you'll get it promoted that time
but in those natural fluctuations
as your negative emotions start to
leverage themselves in that's in that
space
then your motivation is going to become
you know go to crap
so the truth is that if people are
asking you know how do i maintain my
excitement for the sake of like
long-term motivation
long-term motivation does not come from
maintaining excitement
excitement can help you out of the rut
but what you really need to work on is
why do you assume that the default
position is going to be failure
right and there's good reasons to assume
and i'm not saying you shouldn't assume
that that's the case because you know
you're a smart person and you've learned
that i tend to screw things up
but by taking that that possibility
seriously by looking at it seriously by
understanding hey like i've screwed
things up in the past
and these are my vulnerabilities by
respecting those vulnerabilities by
taking them seriously by taking the fact
that you do screw things up pretty
seriously and working on it very
authentically you can actually overcome
them
because even though you have screwed
things up does not mean that you will
continue to screw things up
performance is not
a guarantor of future gains right this
is a very important thing from like
people who trade stocks just because the
stock has done well for the last 100
days doesn't mean it will continue to do
well for the future 100 days
just because your life has led to
certain conclusions which may be fair
does not mean that those conclusions
need to form your destiny
so the destiny is still in your hands
you need to just take your problems very
seriously you need to recognize that you
have an awesome opportunity for epic
cash flow
is there a likelihood that you'll screw
it up absolutely
and it's by respecting the possibility
that you will screw it up
that you actually give yourself the best
chance of success
so i'm going to share with you guys a
quick learning from ti
so i've worked with several esports
teams
and there are some teams that
you know if you really want the best
chance to win a game you have to the
best way to best chance to win a game is
to accurately assess what your chances
of winning the game are
so there are some teams that will be
better than their opponents and they'll
think things like oh these people are
crap
we got that we got this right these
people are trash they play trash dota
and we're gonna we're gonna stomp them
and when you enter the game with that
attitude there's a decent chance you
have a greater chance of losing the
right attitude to have is that hey we
are better than these people but this is
the international and like you know
anyone they're gonna be playing their
best and they're going to try to take
games off of us
right any even though if you're favored
in a match you still have to respect
your opponent don't over respect them
but respect them enough
i've seen the flip side of this too
where sometimes teams are intimidated by
their opponent
and like they're not favored right so
let's say you've got a 20 chance of
winning this game and so what these
teams will do is we'll psych themselves
up they'll be like oh these guys aren't
that great like even the back of your
mind you know that they're probably
better than you are
but people don't want to they don't want
to say that right because they're afraid
i don't know what's going on with this
color by the way
but they don't want to say that's what
they do is they psych themselves up and
they're like oh these people aren't that
good like we're better than they are
like you know we can beat these noobs
like they're not that great they're like
not that great oh we can do this
and then what happens is when you enter
the game and like you have an 80 chance
of losing like you start to lose and
then that false confidence comes
crumbling down
so one of the key things i learned from
ti is having authentic doubt is better
than having false confidence
so if you really want to win that game
against an opponent who's better than
you are you have to go in understanding
that you're not favored to win
the attitude that you want is that you
know i may not win but i have a chance
so like even though i'm not favored like
there is a way that i can win this game
and i just need to look for it these
people are not perfect are they better
than i am sure
but they're not going to their chances
of winning are not 100 i can win this
game
even if they're better than than i am i
just need to look for them to screw up
they're going to be playing with
overconfidence and i'm going to punish
them for it
so to be very authentic about your
situation have you failed in the past
yes should you be careful about failing
in the future absolutely respect your
opponent take it seriously and by doing
so you'll actually have the best chance
of doing really well and actually coming
out on top so if you want to hit that
epic cash flow you can't underestimate
your chances and you can't overestimate
your chances
take your problems seriously respect
them and understand that if you respect
your problems they can actually be
worked on and they're not invincible
you can overcome the things that have
held you back
right your past does not dictate your
future you are in control of this you
just need to take it seriously